I was stunned at how big your business
empire is. You know, even as you're
speaking there, you're talking about
movies that I've watched that I had no
idea that you're involved in and you're
talking all these other incredible
things you've done and yeah, your
company's doing what what 12 billion
dollars in revenue annually? Well, it's
a group of companies, not just one.
Group of companies, yeah. And then
earlier on you said you'd spoken to
these 50 very, very rich people in the
pursuit of writing the books that you've
written about wealth and finance and
money.
Pattern recognition.
>> That's right.
>> What is the pattern that you noticed in
those people it that you then apply to
yourself?
What is the pattern? You know, this is
called the diary of a CEO, so I'm sure
we have a lot of people that are
thinking about building businesses, want
to get financially free, especially in a
world of AI where they're they're very
uncertain about how they'll make money
and how they'll provide stability that
to their family. What is the pattern
that you have found in all of those
people that you have met and
interviewed? And I know you know some of
the most wealthy people on earth because
I know you coach a lot of them.
I don't think people fully realize the
significance of how many of the most
influential people on planet earth you
have worked with and continue to work
with. Um I found it hilarious that Bill
Clinton called you
uh the day before he was going to be
impeached telling you that he was going
to be impeached and asking you what he
should do.
>> Yeah. First, let's say what everybody
makes the mistake on, the majority of
people. We live in a free enterprise
system and we have kids that all think
communism is great. I just want you to
know, I went to the USSR when it was
still the USSR. I was 24 years old. I
was brought there because of my fire
walking experience and I went on a train
from from Moscow to Siberia and back for
two weeks. On the train, we were all fed
caviar and the most incredible meals as
were all the Russians on the plane,
right? We're supposed to be all equal,
right? That's supposedly what communism
is. It's everything's fair for
everybody. Every single town we'd stop
in the square where the there and in the
square there's a big building and they
they wrapped around for about maybe a
quarter of a mile. People standing in
the freezing cold to get a quarter of
milk and a half of
a thing of bread. I left there and I
became a capitalist. I didn't know what
a capitalist was, but I knew I wasn't a
communist, right? So, people in our
country are in the free enterprise
system, but they don't understand it.
So, what are they making the mistake of?
They're consumers, they're not owners.
We are a consumer society and we train
these kids to be consumers, adults as
well. So, I'll give you a simple
example. I looked I was trying to give
an example to a young kid the other day,
so I actually did the math on it.
You have an iPhone?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay, have you always had an iPhone?
>> Well, yeah, for the last decade or more,
yeah.
>> All right. So, iPhone's around for what?
18 years, 19 years? I went and did the
numbers and found out what the cost was
for every iPhone, added up. If you got
an iPhone each time and somebody who's
older than that, you spent 22,000 and
some change at the retail price.
If you bought the stock, I went and saw
what the stock was on the same day that
thing came out and you bought the stock.
Same amount of money of the stock.
>> Apple stock.
>> Apple stock.
$326,000 right now. Instead of out 22
grand, you have 326. If you're going to
use an Apple phone, I'm not saying it's
Apple specific, I'm not making a
recommendation, why would you not own
the company?
Right? Because we don't teach people to
think that way and so now they think
communism is going to be the answer.
They don't understand what that really
means. They have no clue. So, you have
to become an owner.
You have That's what you have to do.
Then the second piece is, when I
interviewed all these people, I found
four things with them. I found number
one, their focus didn't matter if they
were a a macro trader or if they were
value trader or didn't matter what their
style was. The four things that they had
in common, I call them the core four,
was number one, they all
were focused on not losing money.
Most people are trying to make money.
And the reason is they know, if you
lose, you know,
you you you lose you got a $100,000
investment and you lose 50%.
How much do you have to grow your money
to get your money back? And people will
say 50%. No, you got to grow it 100%.
>> Mhm.
>> Right? You get it?
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> Right? So, they know that. So, they're
first making sure they don't How do they
do that? They do it by asset allocation,
right? They all have different asset
allocation strategies, which at the most
basic level is you don't put all your
eggs in one basket. Most people put all
their money in their business or their
house, right? They
know that that is the kiss of death. And
so they look at how to divide their
assets where they have a certain amount
in more secure environment, meaning not
a lot of upside, but it's like the nest
egg, and they have some that are more at
risk. And there's different And I
learned what theirs are, and I taught
those different ones. But the most
valuable one I know you know, cuz I read
it in your book. And I was really
impressed. Asymmetrical risk reward.
Their entire focus is not about taking
risks. Like there's few Only a few
people you think you're a billionaire
cuz you took giant risks, right? No, no,
no. May Some do, but they don't usually
stay billionaires doing that, right? How
do they do it? They figure out what's
the smallest amount of risk with the
most amount of upside that I can do. And
so
Paul Tudor Jones's approach was five to
one. If I'm going to risk a dollar, I
want to be certain I'm going to make
five.
You and I, most average people, would
normally think I used to think, well,
12, 15, 20% return, right?
But here's how it works. If I risk $1
and I'm certain I'm going to make five
and I'm wrong, I'm down one. I can risk
a dollar and still make four. I can be
wrong four times out of five and still
be okay.
That's how those guys become
billionaires. Asymmetrical risk reward.
I was talking to a gentleman um who in
19 like 2008, excuse me, he took $25
million and turned it into $2 in the
worst economic time. He anticipated
[snorts]
what was going to happen with the real
estate. Everybody thought it was going
to keep going up. He used synthetic bets
and bet against it and made $2
Brilliant, brilliant job. And I said to
him,
you know, what What is the things that's
missing for investors? He goes, well,
the smartest investors are usually the
worst investors cuz they want absolute
certainty. They know everything before
they decide, and by that time the
opportunity's gone.
>> [clears throat]
>> And he said, but the most important key
for him is asymmetric risk reward." He
said, "I risked I think he said he
risked 6 cents for every dollar."
He could have been wrong a dozen times,
but he wasn't. That's how he did it,
right? And then the fourth one is the
obvious one we both know which is
diversification, but this is the real
key.
You know Ray Dalio is, right?
>> Yeah. Yeah, I've interviewed him
actually.
>> Yeah, so Ray's a good friend. One of the
questions I asked him was, "If we had to
reduce it to the single most important
investment principle to know, I mean
you're a the DaVinci of investing. No
one has made more money than you in this
area, you know." I said, "What is it? Is
there one? There's got to be one." And
he goes, "Tony, there is." He goes, "I
spent almost 9 years refining this, and
it's so simple. So the holy grail of
investing is to find eight to 12
uncorrelated investments that you feel
strongly about. If you find eight to 12
of those, you reduce your risk 80% and
keep your upside. In fact, you slightly
enhance your upside."
>> Uncorrelated for somebody
>> Uncorrelated. That's that's the hard
part today, cuz so many markets are
correlated.
>> What does uncorrelated mean for someone
like this?
>> Well, for example, stocks and bonds
traditionally are thought of as
uncorrelated. Meaning, you know, stocks
in a tough time, those are the ones
Excuse me, in a growing time, stocks are
where you put your money, but bonds are
to protect you when the market goes
down. Unfortunately, during most things
like 2008 or 2020, they both go down at
that time, but nobody talks about that,
do they? They just go, "Oh, it's this
weird thing." It happens regularly.
>> So things that don't move together.
>> That's right. They don't move together.
Well, so much is tied together today.
But the only way to really do it is
you've got to have private investment,
private equity, private credit, private
real estate. You have to diversify
beyond just stocks and bonds, and then
you can get that across it by different
industries, different elements, cuz
think about this. This will blow your
mind.
Private equity, basic private equity,
now I interviewed 12 of the best in the
world. Basic private equity has
outproduced every stock market in the
world for 40 years. Every single stock
market in the world every year for 40
years. Now, you don't have total
liquidity, that's you're giving
something up, but your returns are in a
different place. They don't have to sell
when things are tough, they take
advantage. These are the smartest people
out there. They're not just trying to
get alpha, they're building value,
right? They take a company, they put AI
in it, they bring new people to it, and
then they take it to the public or in
most cases they sell it to private
companies. There's fewer public
companies than ever. So, I looked it up
and it was fan- fantastic see, the
average S&P for 39 years was 9%. Nice
return.
If you put a million dollars down, you
know, you'd have $28 million,
you know, 39 years later without doing
anything. But if you put it in basic
private equity, basic private equity has
averaged 15.7%.
Think about the difference of
compounding that every single year.
>> Yeah, it's crazy.
>> Now it's worth $328 million.
That's the difference between the same
investment in public versus private. So,
it's finding these pieces, but when you
can do eight to 12 uncorrelated
investments or more, reduce your risk by
80%. That's how you get higher returns
and the same time because most people
are behind. And so
>> You You didn't come from a financial
background.
>> No, no, I have no financial background.
>> You didn't study finance in university.
>> No.
>> So So, where did you learn all this
stuff about finance?
>> to the very best on Earth. Like why
would I go to university to professors
never done anything when I can go to 50
of the smartest people on Earth or in
private equity I went to 13 of the
smartest ones, the most successful in
history.
>> Is your superpower learning?
>> Yes, I think it's That's what I told I
said to you from the beginning. That's
what pattern recognition, pattern
utilization, pattern creation is. If you
don't learn at a rapid tempo in the
world right now, you're cheating
yourself of an extraordinary life.
>> Is there a tactic or a strategy to make
me a better learner, especially someone
that does this podcast? I get to meet
people like you, so I want to store
everything
>> Yes.
>> in this time that we have.
>> Yes, I I'm I believe in immersion and
spaced repetition. So, I believe like
Did Did you take a language in school?
>> Oh god, yeah, German.
>> Can you speak it?
>> Nein.
>> [laughter]
>> That's right. So, most people go to
college or high school and college and
they take a language, right? And 5 years
later, 10 years later, can't speak a
word, right? Immersion is how you do it.
So, if I wanted to teach you a language
and you had the time and money, I would
take you to Italy and I would drop you
in the middle of Rome and say, "I'll see
you in 90 days." With no one to teach
you, in 90 days, are you going to be
speaking the language?
>> Better.
>> You're you're going to speak the
language. You're going to know the
nuances of the language. You're going to
have a pitch and tone that's more there
cuz it's how you learned originally, by
total immersion. So, the reason I do 12
hours a day for 4 days,
50 hours in a weekend or 60 hours and
most people think, "I'll never do that."
But, they have the time of their life.
So, time disappears when you're enjoying
yourself. And when you hate it, I mean,
it feels like eternity. But, the reason
I'm able to do that is that immersion is
like years of experience and you're in a
peak state while you're doing it. So,
your memory because it's locked in, like
9:00
as opposed to 8:00.
So, I love that. The other thing that I
do is I'm capturing I use AI now to do
it. I've kept journals my whole life
just like you looks like you've done.
But, I'm building out but I have my AI
that I've been feeding over and over and
over again the things that I want it to
remember, the principles and I create
structures to evaluate these things.
>> And I asked you there about how these
wealthy investors make their money. Um
the last question I really have around
this is how the best entrepreneurs in
the world make their money.
Um again, we're called the Diary of a
CEO. So, there's lots of entrepreneurs
and build businesses builders watching.
And I know you've worked with many of
the world's top entrepreneurs. In fact,
one of them wrote you a letter.
>> Oh, which one?
>> Marc Benioff.
>> Oh, I love Marc.
He's beautiful man.
>> For anyone that doesn't know who Marc
is,
um he's the the founder CEO of
Salesforce.
>> Yes. Yeah, he actually came to four I
think or five of my seminars originally
in a row, same seminar. And you You
Marc's a big as I am, he's a big guy and
he was going for it full tilt. And
finally, after the fourth one, he came
up to me and said, "You've convinced me.
I'm going to leave Oracle. I'm going to
start my own business. I want you to
come on the journey with me. It's called
salesforce.com." He said, "We're going
to change business around the world." He
said this to me. He goes, "And I promise
you we'll get to a hundred million
dollars in business." Now, he's doing
like 42 billion, right? So, but Mark's
What I love about Mark is he's a
contributor. He's He's a social CEO.
Like, he's does things for society. He
isn't just about himself. He's an
extraordinary human being.
>> He said, "Dear Tony,
I'm so deeply grateful for everything
that you have done for me over the last
four decades."
He talked about the seminars he'd been
to with you and says that you've
transformed his life through your
inspiration and ideas.
He talks about that particular seminar
you referenced as the moment that led
him to go deeper and deeper and deeper.
He said, "It was at Date with Destiny
that I made the firm decision to leave
Oracle and start my own company.
We even had a brief conversation about
it back then, if you remember."
>> remember.
>> Fast forward 26 years, and Salesforce
now has 80,000 employees and generates
over 40 billion in revenue annually.
It stands as the largest enterprise
software company in the world.
I truly could not have done it without
you by my side.
And as you always say, we often
overestimate what we can do in 1 year,
but we vastly underestimate what we can
do in a few decades.
Tony, I started this letter with
gratitude, and I'll end it the same way.
When I reached my most difficult
moments, you were there. When I reached
my highest heights, you were also there.
I never [snorts] forgot that whenever I
reached out for help, you returned the
phone call or text always quickly.
Business and politics are temporal, but
relationships are eternal, and yours is
one I carry with me always.
Congratulations on everything you're
doing.
I look forward to a wonderful future
with you. Aloha,
Mark."
>> That was very beautiful.
That must be a little
I just I love Mark. He's such a good man
and
um
that's very kind of him to write that
letter.
He says he gives me more credit than I
deserve.
Um but I
I love him personally. I love I I love
strangers. I'm driven by that, but I
love Mark cuz he's such a giver. I I see
him as a
a role model of what a great CEO is.
Someone who understands the social
impact of what they're doing as well as
the business impact. Um he's got a heart
of gold and of course we all have ups
and downs throughout our lives and and
he thinks he's just I just helped him.
He's helped me, too. It's like it's
never a one one-way piece. It's not like
I go around and coach all these people.
I'm no idiot. I've learned so much from
Mark.
Uh it's priceless. So I have to I have
to send that thanks right back to him.
No question about it.
>> Where does that emotion come from that I
see in your face?
>> I [laughter] don't know. I was just like
I'm I'm an emotional guy. I'm empathetic
guy and I'm I'm a lover, you know?
That's what drives all that I do.
And to um see somebody I love and to see
how far he's come and to know that um
I've been able to be helpful to him at
at key moments
um is meaningful. You know, it's
extremely meaningful cuz he's provided
opportunities for
millions of people, 80,000 employees,
but millions of people through his
creativity and his focus and
we've done a lot of cool things
together. I called him one time I was up
in uh San Francisco for other business
and um I read in the paper that the
this landlord was kicking out these nuns
who had the food kitchen in the the
worst part of the city there, in the
Tenderloin district. And I was like
this guy's an idiot. I mean, I got to I
got to do something. So instead of
leaving, I spent an extra day and I went
and met these nuns.
Most incredible ladies and they were
spending
all their time cooking food so they
could sell food so they could make money
so they could actually prepare food for
the homeless there. And in this tiny
little building and they were getting
kicked out. So I called the owner and I
said listen, I'm on a lot of real estate
also. I understand your rights as a real
estate guy, but I said do you want to be
the most hated guy in San Francisco? I
said
I'll give you an option. How about let
them stay till the end of the year. I'll
pay their lease. I'll pay twice the
amount and then I'll get them out.
I said but you don't push them out now
on the street. So he agreed.
And so then I said to ladies, let's find
a place for you and I'll help you find a
place. We'll rent a place for you. And I
started getting phone calls and one of
the phone calls I got since realtor he
goes, "They're they're looking to buy a
place."
And I said
I said well where they getting the
money? I said they said I don't know. So
I called the nun up and she goes
I said, you know I was said I you know
pay for a place for you guys for a year,
you know, lease you a place. I said but
I hear you looking to buy a place. Do
you guys have some capital or I'm not
aware of? And she goes
"No." She goes, "God will provide,
Tony."
I said like God will provide. That's so
So I spent I don't know a million two
something like that to find them a
place. But then I called Mark cuz I
didn't want them living in the place. I
said Mark match me on this. And I mean
he didn't hesitate a second. He had not
even met the nuns. Then he went and met
the nuns. We went and met them and he
went and he bought them a home for them
to stay in. And and then we went through
four years of the city trying to not let
them take over this place. But that's
kind of guy Mark is. So he's incredibly
generous and I'm very touched that I
could count him as a friend and be a
helpful to him and he's been so helpful
to me.
>> I've learned quite a lot about you today
just from observing you and two one of
the big things that I've learned is the
two moments where I've seen tears in
your eyes
have both been moments where people have
expressed a huge amount of love and
appreciation for you.
>> That's true.
>> And I I work back through your early
earliest years and I I get it it's
almost like a a jigsaw puzzle coming
into formation in my mind of
how how much you love love.
>> I do. I think love is life.
Love is the driving force in my life for
sure. There's no question about it. And
that's why
I can't
I hate to see suffering cuz it's the
opposite of love. You know, if you love
somebody, what do you do? Anything you
can. So, that's what I'm called to do.
And it is it's a calling. It's not a
job. It's not a business. You know, I've
all kinds of businesses, obviously, and
I enjoy business. But this is my
mission. This is what I'm made for. And
um
I'm just one guy there. I can't do
everything, but I can do a lot. And I'm
always figuring out how to scale more,
right? You know, whether it's feeding
people or
I'm getting you know, my wife and I
we're fortunate to have our own plane
and I I don't want to just burn up a
bunch of carbon. So, I found it's 3,000
trees. So, I said, "Let's plant 100
million trees." We're up to 75 million.
I think we're going to hit the 100
million this year. And but we didn't
just plant the trees. We taught the
farmers, worked with the organization
about how to build a build a crop not
once a year, but to do it across 12
different months. So, that something
drops out, they come out and they go
from earning a dollar 25 a day and
starving to making $12 a day, which
doesn't sound like much, makes them rich
in that community. So, we're doing that.
I just I love taking things to scale,
too. It's like
I love the individual impact and I love
the the global impact. The combination
of the two make life ever challenging
and ever exciting.
>> With people like Mark and entrepreneurs,
my last question about this pattern
recognition and my last question is just
as me as a you know, I'm I'm an
entrepreneur and building businesses at
the moment. I'm earlier in my journey,
much earlier than someone like Mark. But
what is the pattern that you've seen in
these exceptional founders and
entrepreneurs as it relates to building
great businesses
that you would impart on me?
>> I don't think there's anything I'm going
to impart on you that you don't already
know cuz the fundamentals are so simple.
Um you have to the business has to be
more than a vehicle for money. And don't
get me wrong. I mean, there are people
who certainly succeed that way. But if
you look at the people that build
something that's lasting, it has to be a
passion where you it's something you
believe in so much, it's so valuable.
It's a contribution sense to you, not
just an economic sense. Cuz in the
beginning of a business, it's like
having a child, you know?
You know, you don't get a lot back. You
You work around the clock, you'll
discover when your first child comes,
and you love them. It's It's the pride
of ownership. But, if you're just a lot
of people start a business thinking
they're going to get rich overnight or
make some And those people never
succeed. So, it's like finding something
a vision that not only you believe in,
but others are completely moved by cuz
you can attract people. You can't build
an organization without great people. I
I mean, do you think I could run all
these companies if I was just sitting
there every day? I mean, I've got some
of the greatest leaders I could possibly
recruit. I'm constantly looking for the
second part, which is how do I find
leaders? How do I find leaders that are
smarter than I am in various areas, and
where I can pull together the right
people together and create a culture
that adds massive value and continually
does so until it dominates the that
industry or that market or that
marketplace. So, I think you have to
find something that's more than just a
business for you. It has to be more than
economics for you. It has to be a
mission for the most successful people.
You have to be able to have something
you can articulate that can attract
people, and you have to constantly find
the very best that you can, and you got
to constantly prune because the law of
familiarity shows up. That's what your
friends went through, right? They got
all these great things, but now how
great it is after a while, it's
familiar. You know, it's like they don't
they don't have the same hunger. I look
for not only wickedly smart people,
which I love, but hungry people. When
people ask me like, "What is the one
common denominator of people that
succeed on a massive scale around the
world?" I'd always in the beginning I'd
say, "Well, I love wicked intelligence,
but I know a lot of very smart people
that I can't fight their way out of a
paper bag in their relationship or their
finances, you know, they're smart in one
area and not another."
But, the one that is absolutely
completely accurate is hunger. The
hunger to be more, to do more, to give
more, to share more. Somebody who has a
hunger that doesn't die. Not a hunger to
get make a certain amount of money or a
hunger to achieve, you know, a swimsuit
size, but a hunger that's unquenchable.
Those are the people that you know their
names because they have an impact. So,
it's like whether it's Richard Branson
who's in his 70s, he's the same hunger
today as when he was 16 years old in
that crypt in your country coming up
with Virgin, right? I mean, the same
level, let's give it a go, right? He's
got that piece, you know? Uh anybody you
see, I mean, you know, look at the
people you have on your show and think
about how many of them still have that
hunger. Kevin Hart, like he's a friend
of mine, I know he's been on your show.
I mean, he's one of the hardest working
guys, but he's hungry. He loves it. He
want He just wants to do it all. To me,
that's the gift. And it's stoking your
hunger or waking someone's hunger that
doesn't have it. That's a real gift, and
that's one of the gifts I think I've
tried to refine within myself and help
people with.
>> If you love The Diary of a CEO, Brandon,
and you watch this channel, please do me
a huge favor. Become part of the 15% of
the viewers on this channel that have
hit the subscribe button. It helps us
tremendously, and the bigger the channel
gets, the bigger the guests.